+++
title = "Evaluating conditions for Moored Fish Aggregating Device Fisheries Development in the Caribbean and Bermuda"
date = "2022-01-01"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["M. W. Wilson", "J.M Lawson", "M. I. Rivera-Hechem", "**J. C. Villaseñor-Derbez**", "S. D. Gaines"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*Frontiers in Marine Science*"
publication_short = "*Front in Mar Sci*. [DOI: 10.3389/fmars.2022.827068](https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fmars.2022.827068/full)"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Moored fish aggregating devices (MFADs) are promoted in small-scale fisheries around the world as tools to increase fisher incomes, enhance food security, and ease pressure on degraded inshore fisheries. Despite their growing popularity, the biophysical and socioeconomic contexts in which MFAD fisheries are implemented - and the implications of these contexts for MFAD fishery success - remain poorly understood. Here we develop a framework identifying and evaluating factors likely to influence MFAD fishery outcomes and apply it across states in the insular Caribbean region. We highlight the heterogeneity in MFAD regulatory strength, catch marketability, social need, and costs among states and discuss best approaches for optimizing MFAD benefits across different socioeconomic scenarios."
abstract_short = "Moored fish aggregating devices (MFADs) are promoted in small-scale fisheries around the world as tools to increase fisher incomes, enhance food security, and ease pressure on degraded inshore fisheries. Here we develop a framework for identifying and evaluating factors likely to influence MFAD fishery outcomes and apply it across states in the insular Caribbean region."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
projects = [""]

tags = ["fisheries"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "files/publications/017_fads2.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = "https://doi.org/10.5061/dryad.3r2280gj3"
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = "https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fmars.2022.827068/full"

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

**Altmetric**

<script type="text/javascript" src="https://d1bxh8uas1mnw7.cloudfront.net/assets/embed.js"></script><div class="altmetric-embed" data-badge-type="donut" data-altmetric-id="125236646"></div>

